# Advanced Anal Techniques

### Dilation



There is not much evidence to suggest that dilating the anus, rectum, or colon with large sex toys has long-term effects. Some people even comment that when they maintain their maximum "natural" bowel movement size (diameter less than 5.7 cm), you can even experience stronger anal sphincter muscles, which is similar to the effect of yoga because it stretches your muscles and makes them more elastic than regular exercise. As long as you perform gentle dilation, you can also exceed that diameter and still not have any long-term effects. However, please note that this is based on online comments, as there has not been enough research on such a topic. If you engage in anal play slowly, you should not experience significant changes in the appearance of your anus.

Some dilation can cause permanent changes to your rectum, but this is associated with more extreme types of anal play, such as fisting and intentional prolapse play. This extreme dilation can stretch the internal tissues that hold the colon and rectum to the abdominal wall (mesentery tissue), eventually leading to unintentional rectal prolapse. Some people enjoy intentional prolapse, which usually retracts back inside immediately after the person stops pushing. However, over time, the mesentery tissue may be stretched, and intentional prolapse can become unintentional.

**Note:** The correct way to view anal dilation is not as a goal-driven activity, but as a muscle relaxation activity. View anal dilation as anal yoga, where you learn to control your muscles and relax them on demand.

It is always tempting to push your limits. In a state of high arousal, you often ignore rational thought. In many cases, you will start to believe that you can fit a large sex toy inside if you just push a little harder, but this is dangerous. This method should not be attempted to prevent yourself from getting injured. The recommended method for dilating the anal sphincter is to use sex toys that gradually increase in size. There is no golden number that works for everyone, but you can consider the following method to dilate your anal sphincter:

- **Beginners start with a sex toy with a diameter of 2.0 cm.**
- **Play with the same size toy for several weeks until you can insert the sex toy with almost no effort and no discomfort.**
- **Increase the diameter of the next sex toy by no more than 3 mm.** In our example, look for a sex toy with a diameter of 2.3 cm.
- **Play with the same size toy until you feel no discomfort.**
- **Increase the diameter by no more than 3 mm again.**
- **Repeat the process until you feel that the sex toy cannot be inserted because your pelvis won't allow it.**

In general, stretching the anal sphincter will cause tiny tears in the anal tissue. Since these micro-tears are too small to be noticed, you won't even see blood, but they will limit your ability to dilate. When doing anal play, you can do it a few times a week (you may have some concerns about colon health due to frequent douching). As long as you have a good diet and don't force yourself, then simple anal play without over-dilating the anal sphincter (being able to insert a sex toy or penis without effort) should not cause any problems. When you are trying to reach new limits, it is not a good idea to perform anal dilation multiple times a week. You need to let your tissue heal. A week seems to be a good amount of time for most people, but you should always pay attention to the signals your body sends. If you feel a burning sensation or general discomfort after your last anal dilation that you haven't felt before, then you may need to wait longer for your tissue to heal. Remember that even very slow anal dilation is still quite brutal.

There is no specific method to dilate the anal sphincter to accommodate large sex toys, but here we will describe some routines that can be used to reach new limits. These are not friendly to beginners. Beginners should gradually increase the width over several months, but for more advanced people, we can describe routines for various goals. You can find these routines below.

- **Gradually Increasing Diameter:** This is a very straightforward method and must be part of your dilation routine. You should have some experience before you start increasing the diameter. Start with a warm-up, and then play with the dildo you can comfortably insert. Start with the smallest dildo you have and play with it for a few minutes, then move to the next dildo that is larger than the previous one. You can increase the size by more than 3 mm, but you should only do this if it's not the largest size you have ever been able to insert. Avoid increasing the diameter by more than 1.0 cm, and be reasonable. If you feel discomfort, then decrease the size and play with a smaller size until you feel comfortable. When you get close to your known previous limit, start increasing the diameter by no more than 3 mm. Insert the largest sex toy you currently know you can insert and clamp it for a few minutes, then start thrusting slowly for a few minutes, then clamp the sex toy for a few minutes, then start thrusting again. Repeat this process many times until you feel comfortable with the current diameter. Increase the diameter and try to insert the sex toy. Do not use too much force and do not create pressure on the anal muscles. Consider changing your posture to find an easier way in. Repeat the clamp-thrust process until you are satisfied with the new diameter. Even this gradual increase in diameter will cause tiny tears and will cause discomfort the next time you use it. It is recommended that you use this method no more than once a week and repeat it for at least 1 month before moving to a larger size.

- Using Sex Toys for Double Insertion: Double anal penetration (or DAP) is a fantasy for many people and can be achieved with practice. You will need two dildos, one large and one small, or both dildos can be the same size. The method is very simple: you start with the smaller dildo and play with it until you can insert it with no effort (5-10 minutes). Then replace the smaller dildo with the larger one and play with it until you can insert it with no effort (5-10 minutes). Replace the larger dildo with the smaller one again. This time, use a circular motion when inserting the dildo and use the dildo to further open your muscles by pushing it in from unusual angles. This will dilate your anal sphincter more (5-10 minutes). Replace the smaller dildo with the larger one and repeat the circular motion and thrusting from unusual angles to dilate the anal sphincter (5-10 minutes). When you feel comfortable, insert the larger dildo and slide a finger in on the side of the dildo that is closest to your tailbone. Move your finger around the dildo in a circle, and repeat the motion until you can easily slide your finger in and out. Repeat the process with 2 or 3 fingers, inserting them from one side, circling the dildo, inserting the next finger, and then repeating. When you feel comfortable with multiple fingers along the larger dildo, remove your fingers, slide the dildo in deeper, and then re-lube the smaller dildo. Slide the smaller dildo in on the side closest to your tailbone. Leave the two dildos in your rectum for a while, and then start a steady thrusting motion. You should repeat this method no more than once a week for 3-6 months (after which you can move to more advanced dilation methods).

  Note: When dilating the anal sphincter and rectum, large sex toys will put pressure on the parasympathetic nervous system, which controls the body's functions at rest. For many inexperienced people, this sensation will create a "pushing out" reflex, but you must learn to resist this urge and let the sex toy simply stay in your rectum. If you find this sensation unbearable, then remove the sex toy, try to relax, and try again in a few minutes.

- **Penis Double Insertion:** Double anal penetration with a penis is possible. First, engage in anal sex with each penis for about 5-10 minutes. Have the man with the largest penis lie on a bed or similar furniture, with his legs on the edge of the bed. Then sit on the man who is lying down, and insert his penis as deep as you can into your anus. Bend over so that both chests are touching, and then have the second man insert his penis above your anus (closest to the tailbone). You may find this embarrassing. Some people cannot get into a suitable position to receive DAP. The man lying down will find the insertion complicated, so adjust the angle, speed, and depth to find what works for you. This is a more advanced form of dilation because you have much less control over the insertion, and it's easier to create tiny tears. You should not repeat this method more than once a week.

- Increasing Diameter and Depth: To achieve a larger diameter, you will need sex toys of various sizes, but make sure the diameter you try to achieve is no more than 3 mm larger than your previous maximum diameter. Consider first doing the "using sex toys for double insertion" training and using the method of adding fingers to gradually increase the diameter. When you feel you are trained enough, you can consider starting your dilation training with a dildo of about 4 cm in diameter and at least 20 cm in length. Play with this dildo until you can comfortably insert it completely and thrust without feeling stimulated. After a full insertion, clamp the dildo inside for a few minutes and continue to thrust, and then fully insert the dildo for a few minutes, then start thrusting again. Repeat this process many times. Increase the diameter to over 5.0 cm with a similar length, and play with the dildo until you can comfortably insert it completely. Repeat the process until you can comfortably insert the dildo completely. Repeat the clamp-thrust process. Increasing the diameter for depth may take several months and requires multiple training sessions to increase the diameter. Do not do it all at once. Increase the diameter to 6.0 cm and play with the dildo until you can comfortably insert it completely. Repeat the hold-thrust process.

  Increasing the diameter can be a very sensual experience because the pressure around your rectum and anus will be evenly distributed, making you feel "filled." The anal sphincter can dilate to a large size, but it must be done correctly and slowly. It can take several years to reach sizes of 6.0 cm and above, but you may not be able to dilate any further. Sometimes, your muscles simply cannot dilate, or you are limited by the size of your pelvic bones. Unfortunately, limits exist, and you need to accept them. Some people, after reaching their maximum diameter and trying to reach their maximum depth, like to explore other options.

  You can dilate the depth of the rectum and colon, which is called depth training. You can reach incredible depths, and there are even videos of people being able to insert an arm up to the armpit. This is due to the anatomy of the colon. After you straighten the rectosigmoid junction, the colon becomes very straight. If it takes you several years to reach a very thick sex toy, then it will take you twice as long to reach a great depth, because the colon is much more fragile than your anus and is easier to injure than diameter training. For depth training, you need special sex toys, sometimes called "anal probes" or "depth probes." They are very soft, long, snake-like sex toys that don't have much texture and won't stimulate your colon. Dilating the colon must be done very slowly. The general practice is to slowly slide the probe in and let it stay there for a few minutes. Then you can do very slow and gentle push-and-pull motions. You can't insert the depth probe at the same speed at all depths (you can't insert it with one push and pull). You need to do it slowly, and even pull it back to try again with the next push and pull. This means you can't do fast and deep push-and-pull motions in the colon. The push-and-pull motion must be small and gradually increase in depth. During depth practice, you need to pay special attention to relaxing the colon, which takes years of practice. The general practice is not to strain the muscles, not to try to push anything out, to relax the muscles, and to let the rectosigmoid junction straighten. In depth training, posture is very important. We learned about the anatomy of the rectum and colon in several chapters. You should use this information to find the most suitable posture. The general idea is to make your colon and rectum as straight as possible. A squatting position is one of these postures. Another previously mentioned posture is to lean to the left side and use gravity to straighten the rectosigmoid junction. When doing depth training, you can switch between postures. Some postures can make it easier to get past the rectosigmoid junction, while others are more suitable for going deeper into the colon. If you find it difficult to reach a new depth, you can consider switching postures. Remember, you need to do it very slowly. Depth training is more like a process of guiding a sex toy through the colon than pushing a sex toy in from the inside out.

**Important Note:** If you suddenly feel sharp pain, do not pull the sex toy out immediately. You will feel severe pain if you do not pull the sex toy out slowly. Gently remove the sex toy and try to stay as calm as possible. Under pressure, you will most likely cause the rectosigmoid junction to form a sharp angle, which will make it more difficult to remove any object from the colon.

------



### Fisting



Fisting is a very advanced form of anal sex that requires the insertion of a whole fist into the rectum (or vagina). This requires both the giver and the receiver to have extensive experience, but if done correctly, it can provide very intense stimulation due to the immense pressure created by the fist. Men's fists tend to be larger (average diameter of about 7.0 cm), and women's fists tend to be smaller (average diameter of about 5.5 cm), but despite this, both are very large objects. This does not prevent some experienced people from pushing their limits and accommodating two, three, or even four fists in their anus. Some people also like to push the depth limit and are able to insert a fist up to the armpit. Fisting requires a lot of practice and technique and takes many years.

Anal sex does carry a risk of injury, and this risk increases dramatically with fisting. This is not because fisting itself is dangerous. As we discussed before, there seems to be no evidence that anal dilation play causes long-term damage. But fisting is often very rough and can damage the surrounding organs. Slowly stretching the anal sphincter with a fist will be a very sensual experience, but in some cases, the inserter (fister) likes to go fast and hard (sometimes even engaging in "fist boxing"). This fast and rough fisting can often lead to serious injury. The risk increases a lot when the fisting goes deeper than the wrist. You need to be very careful with the tissues of the rectum and colon; they are very fragile.

You should only engage in fisting when you can comfortably insert a sex toy that is larger than 6.0 cm or 7.0 cm, depending on what kind of fist you plan to receive (female or male fist, respectively). To warm up, you should use a sex toy that is close to the size of the fist. Consider trying various positions, such as squatting, doggy style, or lying on your back. The fister should make a "duck beak" shape with their hand, which is the easiest way to insert a fist, but the fister still needs to be patient and insert the fist slowly. For men, the pressure of a fist on the prostate is quite large, so it's best to start with small pushes with the fist. The receiver must resist the motion of pushing the fist out. The fister should keep the fist still for a few minutes to allow the receiver's body to adapt to the fist. Do not repeat fisting within the first few weeks of the initial fisting. After that, you can do it once a week, but due to the brutal nature of fisting, it is recommended to wait two weeks to ensure all your tissues have enough time to recover from the micro-tears. Train this fisting method for 3 to 6 months to get your body used to fisting.

**Important Note:** If the fisting receiver (the person being fisted) feels pain, it is important not to pull the fist out immediately. You will feel severe pain if you do not pull the fist out slowly. Gently remove the fist, and try to stay as calm as possible. Under pressure, you will most likely cause the rectosigmoid junction to form a sharp angle, which will make it more difficult to remove any object from the colon.

**Note:** It's very easy to get injured during fisting, and the most common reason is sharp fingernails. Consider using rubber gloves (like nitrile gloves) for anal fisting. Make sure the gloves fit perfectly; otherwise, small folds in the rubber can cause discomfort. Water-based lubricants are not very effective for anal fisting. Consider using silicone-based or even oil-based lubricants.